Shared Responsibility
=====================

Shared responsibility in refers to the distribution of security
responsibilities between the Open Telekom Cloud as a cloud service
provider (CSP) and the cloud customer. This concept recognizes that
both parties have a role to play in ensuring the security of data,
applications, and infrastructure deployed in the cloud.

The Open Telekom Cloud secures the underlying infrastructure,
including the physical data centers, networking, and virtualization
layer. This involves implementing robust security measures to protect
against unauthorized access, data breaches, and other threats. The
Open Telekom Cloud offers a range of security services and features,
such as firewalls, encryption and key servers, databases, and identity
and access management tools, to help customers secure their cloud
environments.

On the other hand, the cloud customer is responsible for securing
their data, applications, and configurations within the cloud
environment. This includes tasks such as configuring access controls,
encrypting sensitive data, managing user identities and permissions,
implementing security best practices, and regularly monitoring and
auditing their cloud resources for security threats and
vulnerabilities.

By defining clear boundaries of responsibility, the shared
responsibility model helps ensure that security responsibilities are
properly allocated between the Open Telekom Cloud and the cloud
customer, ultimately enhancing the overall security posture of cloud
deployments. It also encourages collaboration and communication
between the two parties to effectively address security concerns and
mitigate risks.
